# hafs_rawplot

Latest update 14 Mar 2022 -- Kyle Ahern [NOAA/HRD]

-------------------------------------------------------------

Assuming you have HAFS forecast output with grid_mspec and 
atmos_diag output files, here are quick instructions for use:
1) Pull this repo's files to some directory on your machine,
   preferably a "home" directory of some sort
2) Read and modify the "convert_fcst.sh" script accordingly
3) Run the "convert_fcst.sh" script on the command line
Note that if your forecast's diag_table.tmp is not set up to
produce the grid_mspec and atmos_diag files, the core program
in convert_fcst.sh will not work properly.

-------------------------------------------------------------

Note on HAFS branches: This version was tested and intended 
for use with the HAFS branch feature/hafs_nest_sync , but it 
should be compatible with other similar branches that can 
generate atmos_diag and grid_mspec forecast files using 
diag_table.tmp in the HAFS parm directory. For reference, 
the diag_table.tmp file used to test this code is provided. 
The latest version seeing immediate development at the time 
of writing is the newly minted feature/hafsv0.3_baseline 
branch, which does not include the time-dependent zsurf 
(surface elevation) field "mzsurf" seen in this repository's 
diag_table.tmp file. Further, output of atmos_diag files has 
been disabled in the newest branch's default diag_table files. 
To plot all fields handled by this repository in the 
feature/hafsv0.3_baseline branch, the user must:
1) Uncomment the "atmos_diag" line under "output files"
   in the diag_table.tmp file they will use with HAFS
2) Add the "mzsurf" field to the "grid_mspec" output fields
   (as seen on line 36 of this repository's diag_table.tmp
   file).

-------------------------------------------------------------

This repository contains various scripts written in Bash
that can be used to convert raw HAFS files (i.e., without 
post-processing) to a more friendly NetCDF format with GrADS
compatibility. The core script, convert_fcst.sh, should
be modified by the user to specify where their HAFS build is
located, as well as what case to process. By default, all
output generated by the core program is placed in the
given case's cycle directory, in a new subdirectory called
"raw/" . 

Upon execution, the core script copies all .gs and .ctl
files (GrADS scripts and templates) used for plotting to the 
raw directory. The program then utilizes nco libraries to 
extract and convert the fields desired by the user, which are
saved in the "raw/output/" subdirectory. The user can modify
the section at the top of the core script to constrain the
conversion procedure to conserve time and space, which should
be useful for debugging (e.g., a user can specify that only
specific forecast output files should be processed). After
conversion, the program then uses GrADS in batch mode to
generate various images of the parent and/or nested domain
fields on their native grids. As with the conversion 
procedure, the core script can be modified by the user to 
specify which plots (if any) should be generated by the 
program.

In sum, the core program of this directory can:
1) Convert raw atmos_diag and grid_mspec A-grid fields for 
   single-nested domain forecast simulations, such that
   fields are not pseudo-mirrored geospatially by default
2) Combine user-specified fields from atmos_diag and
   grid_mspec files into a single ("fcst") file
3) Plot various commonly-used fields on HAFS native grids
   using GrADS and save results as .png files

The set of .gs scripts utilizes a publically available 
script "xcbar.gs" for colorbar generation, which can be 
found at
https://github.com/kodamail/gscript/blob/master/xcbar.gs
